This woman designed the costumes for ‘Black Panther’
To show off African & Black beauty
Ruth E. Carter brought afrofuture fashion to the new movie
There was not a relaxer or hot comb on set
Carter wanted to showcase
Natural Black hair
Afrocentric attire
And African inspired jewelry

“Our aesthetic was always to bring about positive visuals to the African diaspora in this country. And to dispel stereotypes. To be about a forward-thinking community that empowered the Black community, women, and even natural hair.”
Ruth E. Carter
Costume Designer, ‘Black Panther’

Carter found most of her designers on Etsy
And gathered costumes from Africa, India, and South Korea
Head of the Hair Dept. for ‘Black Panther’, Camille Friend, 
Wanted the actors’ hair to be authentic as well
She got her inspiration from Black hairstyle books
Shot by African photographers
Like J.D. ‘Okhai Ojeikere
Actors even got a say on the various styles
And everyone is lovin’ the look

. @tinnkky
At the very least, #BlackPanther needs to be recognized for the costumes. I wanted ALL of Shuri’s mesh fits dawg

AFROBELLA @afrobella
There are so so many reasons why can’t wait to see #BlackPanther and this is just one of them. NATUAL HAIR!…

DANNI DOLLARSIGN @DanniDollarsign
Brown hair. Brown skin. Thick lips. Wide forehead. Curly hair. Dark skin. All of these things describe me, and everything society told me was ugly. But after 19 years, #BlackPanther showed me heroes that look like me. It was the first time I’ve ever felt pride. Thanks a bunch.

OLABISI FAMAKINWA @ABisi123
#BlackPanther was such a remarkable movie. The characters, amazing cinematography, costumes, music, etc. superseded standards. This is a movie that you have to see twice.

Carter wants to leave a lasting impression with her designs

“I want people to have a new vision of the continent of Africa. I want people to understand it’s not just this dark place where everyone dresses the same with bones in their nose, living in a glass hunt. People need to see this is a modern continent. It has a voice and an aesthetic.”
Ruth E. Carter
Costume Designer, ‘Black Panther’



