100 Years of Black Hair | Allure

100 Years of Black Hair

1920s
Short, flapper-esque haircuts, Marcel Waves, finger waves, and wigs were popular.

1930s
Straightened, short hair with curls, waves, or finger waves lived on. Switches (hairpieces) and wigs were also used to mimic straight styles.

1940s
Hair was kept short and straight, with added curls. The croquignole curl was particularly hip. Women also wore pageboys and wavy hair.

1950s
Black nationalism slowly started to bubble back up, and straightening black hair was a topic for debate. Straightened, mainstream styles remained popular due to society’s Eurocentric beauty ideals.

1960s
Natural hair became politicized during the civil rights movement as a rejection of Eurocentric beauty standards. The Afros of activists like the Black Panthers became an inspiring symbol of rebellion. People were still straightening their hair, though. 

1970s
Afros started to become more of a fashion choice. Black celebrities like Diana Ross and Pam Grier rocked afros in style. In 1973, Cicely Tyson appeared on the cover of Jet Magazine with a stunning, traditionally African hairstyle.

1980s
The afros became less ubiquitous, but the curls were still in. People gravitated toward lesser-textured curls, or Jheri curls. Asymmetric haircuts, like those seen on Salt-N-Pepa, were also hot in the streets.

1990s
Straight hair was still popular, but black women were also wearing braids, styling their baby hairs with gel or pomade. Box braids worn by Janet Jackson in Poetic Justice remain an iconic ’90s look.

2000s
The rise of online communities and YouTube facilitated a natural hair “revolution.” Straight styles were still fashionable, but more black women looked for ways to style their natural kinks. Cornrows, sometimes braided in intricate patterns as seen on celebrities like Alicia Keys, were popular.

2010s
Demand for relaxers continues to drop and natural hairstyles have become more popular than ever… glamorized by YouTube hair gurus and celebrities alike. Braids, twist-outs, bantu knots, locs, and curly Afros are just a few of the many styles black women play with these days.



